=== 3.0.0 / 2010-10-19

* Remove deprecated Isolate.{gems,instance} methods.
* Update RDoc location in the README.
* Make isolated Hoe projects use :system => false by default.
* Teach block file detection regex about Windows.

=== 2.1.2 / 2010-07-23

* Teach `isolate:sh` how to work on Windows.

=== 2.1.1 / 2010-07-08

* Fix $LOAD_PATH filtering bug when system is false.

=== 2.1.0 / 2010-07-01

* Pass self to event hooks. Speculative coding FTL.
* Load ~/.isolate/user.rb if it exists.

=== 2.0.2 / 2010-05-25

* Provide reasonable stale output for missing deps.

=== 2.0.1 / 2010-05-24

* Fine, fine. Re-enables support for Ruby 1.8.6.
* Make deprecated Isolate.gems more compatible with 1.x. [Eric Wong]

=== 2.0.0 / 2010-05-10

* Rewrite README and RDoc.
* Deprecate `Isolate.gems` and `Isolate.instance`.
* Add Isolate::Event hooks for better extension/integration.
* Add ISOLATED env var when Isolate is activated.
* Teach the Hoe plugin to recognize Isolate files.
* Add `env` as an alias for `environment`.
* Significantly refactor API and internals.
* Add .local files for overriding global and gem args and options.
* Segregate isolated gems by Ruby engine and version.
* Make sure it's possible to install a local .gem file.
* Make additive ENV changes idempotent. [Eric Wong]
* Isolate is a module now, not a class.
* Use tmp/isolate as the default, replacing tmp/gems.
* Allow options changes in Isolate files or blocks.
* Make entries additive. Multiple calls to Isolate#gem is fine.
* Lock down required Ruby and RubyGems versions (1.8.7+, 1.3.6+).

=== 1.10.2 / 2010-04-24

Add 'isolate/now' convenience require in prep. for 2.x.

=== 1.10.1 / 2010-04-23

* Fix cleanup, it wasn't.

=== 1.10.0 / 2010-03-15

* Speculative now! shortcut.

=== 1.9.3 / 2010-02-24

* Passing <tt>:file => true</tt> to Isolate.gems will try +Isolate+
  and <tt>config/isolate.rb</tt>.

=== 1.9.2 / 2010-02-17

* Make it easier to break out the manifest to a separate file.

=== 1.9.1 / 2010-01-18

* Append to sources on install, don't just replace 'em.

=== 1.9.0 / 2010-01-18

* Allow isolation to be disabled.

=== 1.8.2 / 2010-01-13

* Don't include Isolate as a dependency in .gems.
* Tweak the README structure for clarity.

=== 1.8.1 / 2010-01-13

* Allow isolate:dotgems to take an env.

=== 1.8.0 / 2010-01-05

* Make build args forgive non-Array input.
* OMG, heaven forbid I use math.
* Remove deprecated Isolate.activate method.
* Remove passthrough, that's what conditionals are for.

=== 1.7.1 / 2009-12-08

* Move to 1-phase activation. Deprecate Isolate.activate.

=== 1.7.0 / 2009-12-07

* Activate gems even in passthrough mode.
* hoe/isolate cleans up by default.
* Isolate#activate cleans up. Isolate.activate is a simple front-end.

=== 1.6.1 / 2009-10-04

* Simplify subshells.
* Squash warning.

=== 1.6.0 / 2009-10-03

* Add Rake helpers.
* Expose the bin path to subshells.

=== 1.5.1 / 2009-10-02

* Fix passthrough for explicitly false conditions.

=== 1.5.0 / 2009-10-01

* Implemented passthrough.

=== 1.4.0 / 2009-09-30

* Added automatic cleanup.
* Minor code refactoring.

=== 1.3.0 / 2009-09-23

* Add support for Gem build args. See the README for details.

=== 1.2.1 / 2009-09-22

* I am a moron. Made the Hoe plugin work again.
* Be consistent about accessors vs ivars. [Review by Scott W]

=== 1.2.0 / 2009-09-22

* Added a Hoe plugin.

=== 1.1.0 / 2009-09-22

* Breaking change: Install by default.

=== 1.0.2 / 2009-09-21

* Fix some README typos.
* Add Entry#matches? to encapsulate activation and installation decisions.
* Remove block form of Isolate#enable, it's unused.
* Properly instance_eval Isolate#environment blocks.
* Reset stubs properly after tests (Random test order FTFW).

=== 1.0.1 / 2009-09-21

* Doco updates. [Review by Evan]
* Don't modify Entry#options on install. [Review by Evan]

=== 1.0.0 / 2009-09-21

* Birthday!
